# Talent Protocol AI API

This is the AI API for Talent Protocol, capable of:

- Generating goals based on the user profile info, such as "bio", "experience" and "interests";
- Generating descriptions for goals, based on the goal title and the user profile info described above.

More features maybe coming in the future.

## 📦 Installation

To install dependencies run:

```bash
bun install
```

This project is based on [bun](https://bun.sh) and uses the [ElysiaJS](https://elysiajs.com/) framework to ensure a fast and type-safe API.

## 🚀 Running

The first thing you need to do, if you don't have an `OPENAI_API_KEY` env variable set globally, is to create a `.env` file using the `.env.example` as a template.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Then, you need to set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable to your OpenAI API key.

Then, to run the API, just run:

```bash
bun start
```

The default port for the API is `8080`, in case you want to edit it just change the `PORT` variable in the `.env` file to whatever suits the best.

### ‼️ Rate limiting

This API is rate limited in order to avoid any type of spam. The rate limiting is provided by the `elysia-rate-limit` package.

Currently you can make maximum `60` requests in `60000` milliseconds (1 minute) - so 1 request per second. In case you want to update this values, just update the `.env` file with the following variables:

```bash
RATE_LIMIT_DURATION=60000 // window duration in milliseconds
RATE_LIMIT_MAX=60 // number of requests in the window
```

## 📝 Usage

When the API is up and running, you can visit `http://localhost:8080/swagger` to see the Swagger UI and test the API endpoints available.

### POST /api/v0/ai/{talentId}/goals

This endpoint generates goals based on the user profile info, such as "bio", "experience" and "interests".
It requires a valid `talentId` to be passed in the URL.

**Currently the only valid `talentId` are `joannacaraballoserrano` and `allisonalvarez` since there's no official endpoint to retrieve the _bio_, _experience_ and _interests_ from the Talent Protocol API and we mocked a 2-user database for now.**

The endpoint receives the following JSON body as an input:

```json
{
  "history": [["string"]]
}
```

The `history` field contains an array of an array of past goals that you would like to exclude, such as old goals already provided by the user, or goals that were already generated by this API.

The endpoint returns a simple JSON as an output"

```json
{
  "response": ["GOAL_1", "GOAL_2", "GOAL_3"]
}
```

A list of 3 goals is returned, each one being a string.

You can test this endpoint via the `/swagger` route or using cURL:

```bash
curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"history": []}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/v0/ai/{talentId}/goals
```

As stated before, if you want to exclude past goals or goals already generated by this API, you can pass them in the `history` field:

```bash
curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"history": [["GOAL_1", "GOAL_2", "GOAL_3"], ["GOAL_4", "GOAL_5", "GOAL_6"]]}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/v0/ai/{talentId}/goals
```

### POST /api/v0/ai/{talentId}/goals/description

This endpoint generates descriptions for goals, based on the goal title and the user profile info described above.

⚠️ **This endpoint is still a WIP.** ⚠️
